Homemade Soup
Rating:
4
Ingredients
2-3 Pound Beef Roast (or buy one to two packages of stew beef pre cut up)
1-2 cans of Corn or one large package frozen sweet corn
1-2 cans of French cut Green Beans
1 Package of Frozen Butter Beans
1 Small head of Cabbage (cut into quarters to make easy to cut up) only ¾ of the head.
1-2 pound package of Carrots
2 Cans of Beef Broth
1 Quart Tomato Juice
5-6 Medium to slightly larger White Potatoes (Russet ok)
1 Medium Onion (sweet cooking onion)
1 Standard size Sauce pan of Water (enough to cover bottom of soup pot)
1 Canning kettle or large soup pot to put ingredients in.
Directions
Prepare the following items the day before (peel, cut, and or chop these item)s: 1. Potatoes (peel and cut in small cubes) 2. Carrots (peel, cut chips about the thickness of two-three quarters stacked) 3. Cabbage. (First, quarter the cabbage, and remove core. Next use a knife to cut in fine slivers on a bias. Only ¾ of the head is needed unless very small head). 4. Peel and chop the whole onion finely. 5. Beef (slice beef lengthwise in about 5 Narrow strips. Next, each turn each strip on the side and slice in half lengthwise. Now cut in small chunks.) 6. If you have a Crock pot (place cut up stew beef in Crockpot, add one can Beef Broth. Turn on low starting about 10PM at night. Let cook over night.
Starting in the Morning:
Turn stove eye to about medium heat. Place, kettle over stove eye. Now add the saucepan full of water.
Then add in order given and allow cook in between Steps:
Potatoes, Carrots, Onions, cook until Potatoes begin to get soft.
Next add:
Corn, Butter beans (Baby Lima Beans), Green beans. Allow to, cook more.
Finally add:
Tomato Juice and second can of Beef broth, and beef .
Directions to Finish cooking:
Allow until Potatoes and Carrot will break up to touch. Depending upon the type of potatoes you might have to thicken the soup if some of the potatoes don’t break up. To make the thickener, in a small cup (smaller than a tea cup) add about 1 tablespoon Flour and pour enough milk to thin it. Pour through strainer to thin,stiring mixture even in the strainer. As soup cook,s this will thicken the soup, but not affect the taste.
***************
