Try Something New
Stir-Fried Lettuce with Seared Tofu and Red Pepper
Rating:
1
Ingredients
2 tbsp Shaoxing rice wine or dry sherry
1 tbsp chicken broth, vegetable broth or water
4 tsp soy sauce
2 tbsp vegetable oil
16 oz firm tofu, drained on paper towels and cut into dominoes or diced
1 tbsp ginger, minced
2 large garlic cloves, minced
1 1/2 tsp serrano or jalapeño chili, minced (I went a little heavy here, but you can totally cut it back to 1 tsp)
1 red bell pepper, julienned
2 large romaine hearts, cut crosswise into 1-inch-wide ribbons
Salt to taste
2-3 tbsp chopped cilantro
Directions
Mix together the rice wine/sherry, the broth/water and 2 tsp soy sauce and set aside.
Heat a 14-inch flat-bottomed wok or 12-inch steel skillet over high heat until a drop of water evaporates within a second or two when added to the pan. Swirl in 1 tablespoon of the oil by adding it to the sides of the pan and swirling the pan, then add the tofu in batches (don't crowd the wok) and sear until golden brown on both sides. Repeat with remaining tofu. If the pan starts to look dry, add a little more oil. Once all of the tofu has been seared, return all of the tofu to the wok and add the remaining soy sauce. Toss and transfer the tofu to a plate.
Swirl in 1 tbsp oil and add the ginger, garlic and chili pepper and stir-fry for no more than 10 seconds, until fragrant. Add the red pepper and stir-fry for 1 minute, then add the lettuce and sprinkle on the salt (don't add too much salt - you there is soy sauce in the dressing and on the tofu already). Stir-fry for 1 minute, until the lettuce has begun to wilt. Add the rice wine mixture, cook 15 to 30 seconds, until the lettuce is bright and crisp tender.  Return the tofu to the wok, stir in the cilantro and remove from the heat.
Serve with rice.
New to the Site? Register Now
Username:
Email Address:
Password:
Verify Password:
First Name:
Last Name:
Do you wish to recieve periodic communications from us?
Already A Member? Log In
Username:
Password:
Browse Popular Categories
Beef
Desserts
Italian
Vegetables
Join Now
Interact With Us
Follow @thereciped
More from The Recipe Depository
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Help Center
FAQs
Copyright © 2015 The Recipe Depository
Loading ...
$(document).foundation();
***************
