Try Something New
Dutch Split Pea Soup
Rating:
2
Ingredients
2 cups split peas
1 large carrot
2 leeks
2 onions
1/2 celeriac root
celery leaves
6 cups water
4oz bacon
2 pork chops
5 pork ribs
2 potatoes
pepper
salt
Optional: smoked sausage (I left this out)
Directions
Rinse your split peas and drain. Cut up your meat into bite size pieces. Chop your carrots, potatoes, onions, leeks, celeriac, and celery leaves.
(This is when I just dumped everything into the crockpot... but here are Dutch Girl Cooking's instructions) Now there are lots of different ways to cook a split pea soup. It also depends on how crunchy you want your vegetables to be. In my soup, I don’t want them crunchy at all—they have to blend in with the soup. I also go for easy and fast. Crock-pot style layering. First add two heaping cups of split peas and simply place the meat on top of that.
Now in with the celeriac root, carrots, onions, leeks, potato and sprinkle the celery leaves all over.
Pour in 6 cups of water and I’ve added a few beef bouillon cubes. You can also do this with plain salt, of course. Does this look pretty or what? You know it’s bound to be a flavor bomb!
Now pop the lid on, bring everything to a boil, lower the heat and leave it be. Simmer over low heat for about an hour to 75 minutes. I usually don’t even open the lid until an hour has passed by. Show some restraint and don’t stir. C’mon, you know you want to :)
After about 75 minutes, I took a peek. It smelled so good by then, gave everything a stir and put the lid back on and gave it another hour.
After two and a half hours had passed I performed my meat check. If I can easily pull the meat off the bones with a fork, I consider the soup done. It came off so easily, so I took the ribs out, plucked the meat and put it back in.
Now this is a pretty rich soup as is, but I’m a Dutch girl cooking, so we’re not there yet! Oh no, we’re not. I thinly sliced a smoked sausage and popped it right in with the rest of his meaty buddies. That’s the Dutch way.
Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle a little more chopped celery leaves on top.
New to the Site? Register Now
Username:
Email Address:
Password:
Verify Password:
First Name:
Last Name:
Do you wish to recieve periodic communications from us?
Already A Member? Log In
Username:
Password:
Browse Popular Categories
Pork
Seafood
Soups & Stews
Turkey
Join Now
Interact With Us
Follow @thereciped
More from The Recipe Depository
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Help Center
FAQs
Copyright © 2015 The Recipe Depository
Loading ...
$(document).foundation();
***************
