Ravioli with Prosciutto & Peas
Rating:
5
Ingredients
1 bag frozen ravioli
1 cup frozen peas
4 oz prosciutto, cooked until crispy, then chopped
2 cloves garlic, minced
2 tablespoons fresh parsley, chopped
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 small carton whipping cream, contains about 1 cup
1 cup of pasta water
1/2 cup shredded Parmesan
olive oil
Directions
With about a tablespoon of olive oil in a heated skillet, fry the prosciutto.  When crispy (but not burnt), remove the prosciutto and place on a paper towel so that any grease can drain.  When cool, chop until smaller pieces.  In the skillet, add about another tablespoon of olive oil and the garlic.  Allow the garlic to brown in the skillet for 2 minutes.  Next, add the tomato paste and cup of pasta water and stir together for about 1 minute.  Add the whipping cream and stir to mix well.  Your sauce should be a nice salmon cover.  If you want it to be a stronger red sauce, add more tomato paste.  You should continue to stir this mixture on medium heat for 3-5 minutes. It will thicken into a nice sauce. Remember, the longer you have it on the heat, the thicker it will become. If you love sauce like I do, you can add a little bit of chicken stock to stretch the sauce.
As you are making the sauce above, boil a pot of water.  Add the whole bag of frozen ravioli. It only takes about 5 minutes for ravioli to cook. During the last 2 minutes of cooking time, toss in the peas so that they cook. Drain when both are ready.  You should time the ravioli to hit the water at about the same time as the whipping cream goes into the skillet.  This will help make the meal come together at the perfect time!
Once your sauce is to your desired consistency, toss the prosciutto in the pan and stir to coat. Then add the parsley, peas, and ravioli and toss to mix well.  Sprinkle the Parmesan cheese on top and serve!  I apologize for the long set of instructions but trust me that this meal is pretty simple to make and absolutely delicious. Once you make it once, it will be even more of a cinch to whip together!
***************
