Ancho Chile Turkey with Maple Bourbon Glaze
Prep Time:
45 minutes
Cook Time:
3 hours 30 minutes
Servings:
6
Rating:
0
A spicy turkey with a tasty glaze.
Ingredients
Chili-Garlic Paste
2 large dried ancho chiles
1/2 cup garlic cloves (2 heads)
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cumin
1/4 cup canola oil
Glaze
1/4 cup real maple syrup
2 tablespoons butter
1 to 2 tablespoons bourbon
1 teaspoon ancho chile paste
Turkey
1 turkey (12 to 15 lb)
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1 orange, cut into wedges
1 dried bay leaf
3 stalks celery
1 onion, coarsely chopped
2 cups Progresso chicken broth (from 32-oz carton)
Gravy
2 to 4 tablespoons butter
1/4 cup Gold Medal all-purpose flour
1 carton (32 oz) Progresso chicken broth (4 cups)
Directions
In 1-quart saucepan, place chiles; cover with water. Heat to simmer over medium heat. Simmer 15 minutes or until chiles have softened. Remove chiles from water; reserve water.
Place chiles in food processor. Add remaining Chili-Garlic Paste ingredients. Cover; process until a paste forms. Add 1 tablespoon reserved chile water to thin. Refrigerate until ready to use. (Can be made up to 2 days ahead.)
In 1-quart saucepan, heat Glaze ingredients over medium heat to boiling. Remove from heat; set aside.
Heat oven to 400°F. Place cooling rack or roasting rack in bottom of large roasting pan.
Wash turkey inside and out; dry well. Season with salt and pepper, pressing it in to adhere. Slide hand under turkey breast skin to loosen; place 1/2 cup Chile-Garlic Paste under skin and rub all over top of turkey. Place orange wedges, half of the onion and the bay leaf inside cavity. Tie legs together with string. Insert ovenproof meat thermometer so tip is in thickest part of inside thigh and does not touch bone. Place turkey on rack in pan; arrange celery and remaining onion in pan around turkey. Pour 2 cups chicken broth over vegetables. Brush turkey with Glaze. Roast 30 minutes.
Reduce heat to 325°F. Roast about 2 hours to 2 hours 30 minutes, basting with pan broth and glaze every 30 minutes, until thermometer reads 165°F and drumsticks move easily when lifted or twisted.
Remove turkey from pan onto carving or cutting board; let rest 15 minutes before carving. Strain pan juices; reserve. Discard vegetables, orange and bay leaf.
While turkey is resting, in 2-quart heavy saucepan, cook butter and flour over medium heat 3 to 4 minutes, stirring constantly, until a blond roux forms. Add remaining 1/2 cup Chile-Garlic Paste, all strained pan juices and carton of chicken broth (4 cups); heat to boiling over high heat. Reduce heat; simmer until thickened. Serve gravy with carved turkey.
***************
