Samuel Adams Walnut Bread
Rating:
0
Ingredients
1 ½ cups cracked wheat kernels
2 ½ cups Samuel Adams Light
½ cup honey or brown sugar
6-7 cups bread flour
2 tablespoons dry yeast
1 ½ cups warm water (110°)
1/3 cup vegetable oil (110°)
2/3 cup honey
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup toasted walnuts, coarsely chopped
1 egg white whisked with 1 or 2 tablespoons warmed honey for glaze
Directions
Roast the wheat kernels in a 400° oven, stirring frequently until brown. Combine the wheat kernels in pan with beer and ½ cup of honey. Simmer on low 1 hour, covered. Uncover, raise heat slightly, and simmer an additional hour or until most of the liquid has been absorbed. Remove from heat and allow to cool completely.
Crush the cooked wheat in a food processor or blender until fine but not pureed. Set aside.
Place 1 cup flour in large mixing bowl. Mix in dry yeast, pour in warm water, and stir thoroughly. Cover and allow to site for 15-20 minutes.
Whisk oil, 2/3 cup honey, salt, walnuts, and cooked wheat into yeast mixture.
Stir in remaining flour one cup at a time using your hands once the dough becomes too heavy for a spatula. Continue adding flour until dough begins to pull away from sides of the blwl and kneading can begin. Knead thoroughly by pushing and turning, adding only enough flour to prevent the dough from sticking to your hands or surface. When dough is smooth and elastic, coat the inside of large bowl with 1 tablespoon of vegetable oil. Press the ball of dough into the bowl and turn it over, coating the entire surface with oil.
Cover and allow to rise in a warm spot until doubled. When doubled in bulk, punch down, devide in half, and allow to rest 5 minutes, covered.
To shape the dough into loaves, coat an area of the counter with a few drops of oil. Pat the dough into an 8&quot;x10&quot; rectangle.
Starting at the narrow end, roll firmly buy gently into a cylinder. Do not stretch the dough. Pinch ends and turn them under toward the seam side. Slam the dough onto the counter, seam-side down, two or three times to seal and remove large air bubbles.
Place the loaves seam-side down in generously greased loaf pans. Cover and allow to rise until doubled.
Brush with glaze and bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes or until tops are golden and bottoms are brown.
***************
