Try Something New
Summer Corn Salad
Rating:
2
The crunch of the corn, the snap of balsamic, and fresh basil just ties this salad up into a cute little bow.
Ingredients
8 fresh corn ears
1 red onion
2 yellow squash
1 red bell pepper
2 medium tomatoes
1/2 cup olive oil
1/3 cup balsamic vinegar
12 basil leaves
1 tsp. kosher salt
2 garlic cloves
Directions
Step 1: Fill a deep pot with water and heat to boiling. In the meantime, strip the husks off the corn and give them a good rinse under water. When the water is boiling, add the corn and let them cook for 15 minutes. We’re cooking them for a short time because we want the corn kernels to stay crisp!
Step 2: While the corn is cooking, roughly chop the onion, squash, and bell pepper. Chop these up to match the size of corn kernels. Chiffonade the basil leaves (stack the leaves on top of each other, roll tightly, and slice across)
Step 3: When the corn is done cooking, run them under cold water to cool quickly then put them aside.
Step 4: In the meantime, prepare the dressing: In a bowl, add the olive oil and balsamic vinegar. Whisk, whisk, whisk, until combined. Add the basil leaves and salt then whisk again. Set aside.
Step 5: When the corn has cooled, scrape the corn kernels off the cob with a sharp knife and place into a huge mixing bowl. Add the rest of the chopped ingredients and pour the dressing on top. Stir until evenly combined. Done!
Refrigerate at least 2 hours before serving. You can definitely make this recipe ahead of time; I’d recommend a few hours before the party, not the night before.
New to the Site? Register Now
Username:
Email Address:
Password:
Verify Password:
First Name:
Last Name:
Do you wish to recieve periodic communications from us?
Already A Member? Log In
Username:
Password:
Browse Popular Categories
Breads
Fish
Greek
Grill
Join Now
Interact With Us
Follow @thereciped
More from The Recipe Depository
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Help Center
FAQs
Copyright © 2015 The Recipe Depository
Loading ...
$(document).foundation();
***************
