Pan Seared Steak with Rosemary Merlot Sauce and Shiitake Confit
Servings:
4
Rating:
3
Ingredients
SIGNATURE SAUCE
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
3 small shallots, chopped
1 clove garlic, minced
2 tablespoons tomato paste
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons Merlot, or red wine ¹
1/2 cup Kikkoman Soy Sauce, divided
4 ounces shiitake mushroom caps, stemmed and sliced ²
1 bouquet garni: (usually includes 2 bay leaves, 4 branches
thyme, 4 sprigs parsley), or 1-1/2 teaspoons
dried bouquet garni herbs
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground pepper, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon sugar
2 teaspoons rosemary needles, chopped
² Use fresh mushrooms, do not substitute dried shiitakes. You may use cremini mushrooms as a substitute.
APPLICATION RECIPE
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
12 ounces shiitake mushrooms, (substitute cremini if preferred), stemmed and sliced
Freshly ground pepper and salt, to taste
4 small sprigs fresh rosemary, plus 1/2 teaspoon crushed
2 teaspoons Kikkoman Soy Sauce
4 boneless rib-eye, or sirloin tip steaks, about 1-1/4&quot; thick
1 ounce cognac or Scotch, optional
5 ounces Signature Sauce (scant 2/3 cup)
Directions
SIGNATURE SAUCE
Heat a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add olive oil, shallots and garlic and sautè until translucent, but not browned. Add tomato paste and sizzle 30 seconds. Add 1/4 cup soy sauce, remaining ingredients, and 2/3 cup water. Simmer uncovered on low heat 10 minutes. Strain. Return to pan; cook over medium-high heat until reduced to 1-1/4 cups, about 8 minutes.
Add remaining soy sauce. Simmer 5 minutes or until silky, with the consistency of a light syrup. Add more pepper to taste if desired. Keep warm until ready to use, or refrigerate 2-3 days. Makes about 1-1/4 cups, or enough for 8-10 average servings, or 2-3 entrees.
APPLICATION RECIPE
Heat 2 tablespoons oil and 1/2 tablespoon butter in a wide sautè pan over medium-high heat. Add shiitakes, a pinch of salt, freshly ground pepper to taste, 1/2 teaspoon rosemary and sautè until they give up their liquid. Add soy sauce, reduce heat to medium-low and cook until concentrated and silky, 10-12 minutes. Remove from heat and keep warm.
Season steaks generously with pepper. Heat a heavy non-stick fry pan (or the rinsed out sautè pan) over medium-high heat. Film with remaining oil. When hot, sear steaks on one side until browned. Turn, sear 2 minutes, and cook until 125°F. for rare, 135°F. for medium-rare, or to desired doneness. Remove with tongs to plates or platter. Sprinkle with a pinch of salt. If using, add cognac to pan and evaporate over medium heat (if heat is too high it will flame - this is not a problem just be aware). Add 1 tablespoon water and the Signature Sauce. Bring to low boil scraping up caramelized meat juices from pan. Whisk in remaining butter. Adjust pepper to taste.
Drizzle each steak with 2 tablespoons sauce, top with shiitake confit. Dot plate rims with a little more sauce if desired. Garnish with rosemary sprigs.
Wine suggestion: Merlot or the same wine you used for the sauce.
Additional serving suggestions: Buttered steamed baby potatoes.
ADDITIONAL USAGE IDEAS
Use as marinade for thick tuna steaks (preferably the deep red variety), or salmon before grilling. Marinate up to 2 hours, no longer. Discard marinade or bring to boil and use as sauce.
Use to deglaze the roasting pan from a standing rib roast, and as sauce for the sliced beef. Add a few tablespoons of water for deglazing with the sauce.
Braised Root Vegetables: toss with a medley of root vegetables and braise slowly. (Carrots, turnips, Jerusalem artichokes, daikon radish, are good candidates).
***************
