Caramel-Toffee Cheesecake
Prep Time:
45
Cook Time:
75
Servings:
16
Rating:
1
Ingredients
1-1/2  cups finely crushed gingersnap cookies
2  tablespoons granulated sugar
1/4  cup butter, melted
5  8-ounce packages cream cheese, softened
1-1/3  cups packed brown sugar
3  tablespoons all purpose flour
5  eggs
2  egg yolks
2  teaspoons vanilla
Caramel Topping*
2  1.4-ounce bars chocolate-covered English toffee, coarsely chopped
Directions
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan. Wrap a double layer of foil around the bottom and side of pan to form a watertight seal; set aside. For crust: In a medium bowl, stir together crushed gingersnaps and the 2 tablespoons granulated sugar. Stir in melted butter. Press mixture onto the bottom of the foil-wrapped pan. Bake about 14 minutes or until crust starts to brown. Cool on a wire rack.
2. In a very large bowl, beat cream cheese with an electric mixer on medium speed until fluffy. Add brown sugar and flour; beat until smooth. Add eggs and egg yolks one at a time, beating after each addition just until combined. Beat in vanilla. Pour over crust, spreading evenly. Place the foil-wrapped springform pan in a roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to reach halfway up side of springform pan.
3. Bake about 50 to 55 minutes or until a 2-inch area around the outside edge appears set and the center appears nearly set when gently shaken. Remove springform pan from water. Cool in pan on wire rack for 15 minutes. Using a small sharp knife, loosen edge of cheesecake from side of pan; cool completely (about 1 3/4 hours). Remove foil. Cover and chill for 4 to 24 hours.
4. Before serving, in a small saucepan, bring whipping cream to simmering. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; stir until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Stir in butter. Chill about 15 minutes or until mixture is slightly thickened, stirring once. Spoon topping onto cheesecake, spreading to cover top. Garnish with chopped English toffee. Makes 16 servings.
5. *Test Kitchen Tip: If you prefer, omit making the Caramel Topping and substitute 1-1/3 cups caramel apple dip. Heat the caramel dip just enough to make it pourable.
***************
