Fried Apple Pies
Rating:
3
Ingredients
16 oz.  – 32 oz.  Dried Apples
Cinnamon
Sugar
Crust:
Pastry Dough, Biscuit Dough, Or Pie Crust Dough.
Directions
Directions (Filling):
In pot add water, and dried apples. Add sugar and cinnamon cook until almost the consistency of chunky apple butter. Taste while in the process of cooking, after the apple starts breaking down add sugar and or cinnamon as needed. (Should have a tart taste, but taste similar to Apple Butter.) Once the filling is the right consistency, remove from heat and set aside until Crust is ready.
Directions (Crust):
You can either use store bought piecrust, Canned Biscuit, or some type of Pastry Dough store bought. Or you can make your own. (Better)
Whether store bought or home created. Roll out dough with rolling pin until very thin. Next use the largest biscuit cutter you can find and cut with Biscuit cutter.
Then if cutter is not very large place layer one on top of the other and roll out so that you double the size.
Directions to Complete Pie:
Take the rolled out dough, layout on a floured cloth.
Add a portion of the filling toward the edge (not in center)
Now fold in half.
Seal edges (to seal you can paint on some egg white around the edges before folding, Mother simply uses water). Now take a fork and use the tines of the fork to seal the edges.
Use an Iron Skillet and put on stove medium to medium low heat. (Hot enough to melt Crisco, or oil begins to ripple.) (On Mother’s GE Stove with cooking eyes temperature was set on 3.) Add pan and fry on each side until golden brown not burnt (crust is cooked through).
Storage Directions:
First, get a large Plate.Roll out a long sheet of Paper towel first to drain grease of crust. Place the pies close together to convers space. Now roll out a long sheet of waxed paper on table, so that part of it is over plate.Roll out a long sheet of Paper towel first to drain grease of crust. Place the pies close together to convers space. Now roll out a long sheet of waxed paper on table, so that part of it is over plate. Start at end on the plate. Place two pies so they make a circle. Now fold remain sheet over so layer is covered. Now repeat adding two pies turning 90 degrees, Fold sheet over so pies are covered. Repeat until all pies are covered. Cover with clean dishtowel and place on kitchen counter. You can put them in Refrigerator. But you have to warm them to eat them.
***************
