Samuel Adams Boston Lager Infused Pizza Dough
Prep Time:
15 minutes
Servings:
2 crusts
Rating:
1
Ingredients
Approx. 3 1/2 cups (20 oz.) unbleached all-purpose flour plus more for dusting
1 packet instant yeast aka: highly active or bread machine yeast
1 Tablespoon finely granulated salt
1 Tablespoon extra virgin olive oil plus more for your rising container, cookie sheet, pizza pan or screen
12oz. bottle of Samuel Adams Boston Lager® warmed up to 120°F-130°F
Directions
Preheat: Oven to 500°F
Warm the beer to 120°F-130°F (warming the beer properly means your yeast will activate properly). Warm the (open) bottle in a bowl of very warm (not boiling water) or by running it under hot water from the tap. A thermometer insures success - if you don't have one handy, the beer should feel very warm (not too hot) to the touch. In a 5 quart or larger bowl, combine flour, yeast, salt and oil. Add beer to flour mixture, and stir with a fork (not stirring with your hands just yet - it's too sticky at first) until the dough is lumpy. Then, go in with your hands. The dough will still be a little sticky, so gradually add flour as you knead to the point that the finished dough should be just slightly tacky and elastic. To tell when the dough is done, periodically poke it and when the dough gently springs back, it's done. Don't worry if it's not perfectly smooth - don't over knead it! Kneading: press down, push, fold, repeat. Your finished dough, will weigh right around 2 pounds (30-34 oz.). Break into two equal pieces - use a scale or eyeball it. Create a ball of each piece and place them in separate airtight containers lightly greased with olive oil. Each container needs to be at least a quart in size to allow for the dough to double in size (deli quart containers work great for this). Set dough aside to rise in a warm location, about 70°F-80F is good. After dough has expanded/up to doubling in size (about 1-2 hours), gently remove from container and stretch to fit on a lightly greased 12&quot; or 14&quot; cookie sheet, pizza pan or screen. Dress to your liking and bake in a 500°F preheated oven until your crust and toppings are to your desired doneness (about 10 to 15 minutes). Out of the oven, allow a few minutes to cool. Then cut, serve and enjoy.
For a thicker crust, stretch to 12&quot;. For a thinner crust, stretch to 14&quot;
Prep time: 15 minutes
Rise time: Between 1-2 hours in a warm spot (about 70°F-80°F)
10-15 minutes depending on your oven, toppings and desired doneness
***************
