Try Something New
Pumpkin Whoopie Pies with Caramel Cream Cheese Filling
Rating:
5
Ingredients
For the whoopie pies:
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1 tablespoon ginger
2 teaspoons nutmeg
1 teaspoon cloves
2 cups brown sugar, pakced
1 cup vegetable oil
3 cups pumpkin puree
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
For the caramel cream cheese filling:
3/4 cup butter
1 cup cream cheese
1/2 tablespoon vanilla
6 cups powdered sugar
caramel ice cream topping
Directions
1. Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line several baking sheets with parchment paper.
2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, salt, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, and cloves. In a separate large bowl, stir together the brown sugar and oil until completely combined . Add the pumpkin puree, followed by the eggs and vanilla, mixing well after each ingredient is added.
3. Sprinkle the dry ingredients over the wet ingredients, and stir until the dry ingredients are totally incorporated.
4. Using an ice cream or cookie scoop, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets about one inch apart. I used a 1/4-cup scoop and ended up with 24 cakes, which made 12 large whoopie pies. Bake for 15-20 minutes, or until the tops begin to crack and a toothpick inserted into the center of each cake comes out clean. Cool the cakes completely on the pans.
5. While the cakes are baking, make the filling. In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream the butter and cream cheese at medium-high speed for about two minutes. Add the vanilla and beat one minute more. Reduce the speed to stir and add the powdered sugar about 1/2 cup at a time. Once the sugar is completely incorporated, increase the speed to medium-high and beat for about two minutes.
6. Assemble the whoopie pies:
Prepare your decorating bag. You can either use a disposable pastry bag or a gallon-size plastic storage bag. After fitting your decorating bag with a large round piping tip, use a small spatula to paint stripes on the inside of the bag with the caramel ice cream topping. Next, fill the bag with the cream cheese frosting. Squeeze the frosting out into a small bowl until you begin to see the stripes of caramel in the frosting.
Match up the cooled cakes according to size and shape. Pipe 2-3 tablespoons of frosting onto one cake in each pair. Top the frosted cakes with the unfrosted cakes and press down gently. Chill for 30 minutes before serving.
New to the Site? Register Now
Username:
Email Address:
Password:
Verify Password:
First Name:
Last Name:
Do you wish to recieve periodic communications from us?
Already A Member? Log In
Username:
Password:
Browse Popular Categories
Cheese
Fruit
Salads
Vegan
Join Now
Interact With Us
Follow @thereciped
More from The Recipe Depository
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Help Center
FAQs
Copyright © 2015 The Recipe Depository
Loading ...
$(document).foundation();
***************
