Try Something New
Beautiful Christmas Cookies
Rating:
0
Ingredients
Cookie Ingredients
2 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick of unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
2 tablespoons milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Icing Ingredients
1 1/2 cups confectioners’ sugar, plus more as needed
3 tablespoons milk, plus more as needed
Assorted food colorings
Assorted sugar pearls or pearlized sugar sprinkles
Directions
In a mixing bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, and salt. Whisk until well blended.
Using an electric mixer, beat the butter and granulated sugar until they are light and fluffy. Beat in the egg, milk, and vanilla until the mixture is smooth.
Gradually stir in the dry ingredients.
Place the dough onto a lightly floured cutting board, and form into a ball. Divide the dough in half and form each piece into a thick disk, smoothing the edges. Place in a zippered plastic bag and refrigerate for a minimum of two hours or for up to two days.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  Remove one disk from the refrigerator and let stand for five minutes on a lightly floured cutting board. Cover cookie sheets with parchment paper.
Roll the disk a few times with a rolling pin to soften.  Roll out the dough to a thickness of about 1/8 of an inch, turning it over and dusting it and the board lightly with flour as needed to keep the dough from sticking.
Use your favorite Christmas cookie cutters to cut out your cookies.
Transfer the cookie cut-outs to the baking sheet. They should be spaced 1 inch apart. Form the dough scraps into a ball, re-roll and cut into additional cookies. Repeat until all the dough is used.
Bake the cookies until firm. They should be uncolored on the top and lightly browned on the bottom, about 10 minutes. Using a metal spatula, transfer the cookies to wire racks and let cool. Repeat with the second disk of dough.
To make the icing, using a fine-mesh sieve, sift the 1 ½ cups confectioners’ sugar into a bowl. Add the milk and stir until smooth. Add more sifted sugar or milk as needed until the icing is spreadable. Divide the icing into several separate bowls. Stir in holiday colored food coloring into each bowl, until a rich, deep color is achieved.  Put the icing into a decorating bottle or a pastry bag.
Squeeze the pastry bag or decorating bottle until the tip is full. Holding the tip at a 45 degree angle, squeeze to pipe the icing. Form an outline around the cookie, and then use a spatula to fill in the icing. While the icing is moist, sprinkle with colored sugars.
New to the Site? Register Now
Username:
Email Address:
Password:
Verify Password:
First Name:
Last Name:
Do you wish to recieve periodic communications from us?
Already A Member? Log In
Username:
Password:
Browse Popular Categories
Barbeque
Duck
Healthy Choices
Russian
Join Now
Interact With Us
Follow @thereciped
More from The Recipe Depository
About Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Help Center
FAQs
Copyright © 2015 The Recipe Depository
Loading ...
$(document).foundation();
***************
